# NFLIS-analysis
Code for Lim et al. (2024) Temporal and spatial trends of fentanyl co-occurrence in the illicit drug supply in the United States: a serial cross-sectional analysis. _The Lancet Regional Health – Americas_, Volume 39, 100898. [10.1016/j.lana.2024.100898](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lana.2024.100898)

For any questions please contact [Tse Yang Lim](mailto:tseyanglim@hsph.harvard.edu)

## Main files
The main file used in this analysis is the R markdown notebook `fentanyl_supply_analysis_v2.Rmd`, which calls data cleaning, analysis, and graphing scripts as needed. The notebook specifies the following settings:

- `dat_folder` is the file path to the local directory where `csv` raw data files are. Note that we are unable to share the raw, record-level NFLIS data files used in this analysis; these may be obtained by request to the DEA or FDA.
- `dat_years` specifies the years to be included in the analysis.
- `update_raw_data` is the switch for raw data intake - reading of separate raw data files to merge them into a single combined data file (also not shared).
- `update_clean_data` is the switch for data processing - applying sample restrictions and defining substance categories as explained in the article.
- `update_analysis` is the switch for rerunning the analysis - calculating and identifying trends in sample-level fentanyl co-occurrence with various substances.
- `druglist` specifies the substance categories to include in the analysis.
- `fig_ext` specifies the filetype (by file extension) to use for saving figures.

The root directory also contains the notebook's corresponding `html` file and an RStudio `RProj` file for convenience.

## Additional files
### auxiliary
Contains `R` scripts for data cleaning, analysis, and graphing, called by the main `fentanyl_supply_analysis_v2.Rmd` notebook

### data-public
Contains information assembled from publicly available data:
1. Most commonly reported substances in NFLIS annual reports from 2013-2022, and our corresponding substance category definitions, corresponding to **Table S3**
2. State names and abbreviations

### figures
Contains high-resolution versions of all figures in the article and its supplement, generated by the graphing code in [auxiliary](auxiliary)

### outputs
Contains `csv` tabular versions of data presented in main article and supplementary figures, Mann-Kendall trend test results corresponding to **Table S1** & **S2**, as well as intermediate data files produced in the course of data cleaning & analysis (in subdirectory [processed](outputs/processed))
